---

title: POST_TITLE
category: text
layout: blog
published: false

---

Today I came across a blog post _referencing_ a tweet written _in reaction_ to some kerfuffle regarding rock star web designers. The blog post, tweet, and kerfuffle all occurred about a month ago. With a 30 day time lapse, and  after this large time span

Twitter and Facebook posts have been revolutionary in the way they can instantly connect us. But they are designed to facilitate a certain type of communication.


+ Fast, in the time span between stimulus and response
+ Short

Twitter, along with its fellow ilk of Facebook and Google+ posts, is an incredible medium for brief, timely ideas and observations. Conversely, it is a terrible medium for lengthy, complex ideas.

Communication is a liquid. It flows and spills and torrents. It takes the shape of its container.

The medium is the message, right?

---

I spend a lot of time on Twitter. I want to use the word "addiction" for it, but that belittles actual addicts. It's more like a bad habit. I know it's bad for me. I know I should stop. I don't like myself when I indulge in it. Yet I continue to do so.

I'd like to think that I am a big thinker, that I am fascinated by big ideas. But this belief conflicts with my actual behavior. Twitter will never be a platform for big ideas. It is best suited for the short: short term in amount of time between event and response, and short length in the amount of data in the response.

Big ideas do not have to be long in their explanation, and large in their amount of data. But if a big idea is communicated through a medium designed for small ideas, then it will be interpreted as such.

[@NASAKepler](http://twitter.com/NASAKepler) tweets about new discoveries of planets revolving around other suns. It's a monumental, challenging concept. I followed this Twitter account for a while. But I eventually un-followed it. When a NASA personality retweets all the mind-shattering concept it runs into, it can generate a lot of content. I just didn't care about it. It was just as enlightening as [@FriendFromHS](http://twitter.com/friendfromhs).



